---
title:  "컴퓨터의 구조 해석 003"
date:   2017-01-19 01:31:00 +0900
categories: 
- 컴퓨터구조
---



# 2017.01.18 수요일 13page 이후   


  목차
  1.2 MILESTONES IN COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE 13

    1.2.1 The Zeroth Generation—Mechanical Computers (1642–1945) 13
    1.2.2 The First Generation—Vacuum Tubes (1945–1955) 16
    1.2.3 The Second Generation—Transistors (1955–1965) 19
    1.2.4 The Third Generation—Integrated Circuits (1965–1980) 21
    1.2.5 The Fourth Generation—Very Large Scale Integration (1980–?) 23
    1.2.6 The Fifth Generation—Low-Power and Invisible Computers 26



##  1.2 MILESTONES IN COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE

Hundreds of different kinds of computers have been designed and built during
the evolution of the modern digital computer. Most have been long forgotten, but a
few have had a significant impact on modern ideas. In this section we will give a
brief sketch of some of the key historical developments in order to get a better un-
derstanding of how we got where we are now. Needless to say, this section only
touches on the highlights and leaves many stones unturned. Figure 1-4 lists some
of the milestone machines to be discussed in this section. Slater (1987) is a good
place to look for additional historical material on the people who founded the com-
puter age. For short biographies and beautiful color photographs by Louis Fabian
Bachrach of some of the key people who founded the computer age, see Morgan’s
coffee-table book (1997).

### 1.2.1 The Zeroth Generation—Mechanical Computers (1642–1945) 기계적인 컴퓨터
The first person to build a working calculating machine was the French scien-
tist Blaise Pascal (1623–1662), in whose honor the programming language Pascal
is named. This device, built in 1642, when Pascal was only 19, was designed to
help his father, a tax collector for the French government. It was entirely mechani-
cal, using gears, and powered by a hand-operated crank.

Pascal’s machine could do only addition and subtraction operations, but thirty
years later the great German mathematician Baron Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz
(1646–1716) built another mechanical machine that could multiply and divide as
well. In effect, Leibniz had built the equivalent of a four-function pocket calcula-
tor three centuries ago.

-> 전자 계산기의 사칙 연산을 하는 것과 유사한 기계 장치를 만들음

Nothing much happened for the next 150 years until a professor of mathemat-
ics at the University of Cambridge, Charles Babbage (1792–1871), the inventor of
the speedometer, designed and built his difference engine. This mechanical de-
vice, which like Pascal’s could only add and subtract, was designed to compute
tables of numbers useful for naval navigation. The entire construction of the ma-
chine was designed to run a single algorithm, the method of finite differences using
polynomials. The most interesting feature of the difference engine was its output
method: it punched its results into a copper engraver’s plate with a steel die, thus
foreshadowing later write-once media such as punched cards and CD-ROMs.

-> 오목 인쇄같이 구리 판화 판에 그 결과를 나타냄. 오늘날의 CD 롬과 같이 기록함.

Although the difference engine worked reasonably well, Babbage quickly got
bored with a machine that could run only one algorithm. He began to spend in-
creasingly large amounts of his time and family fortune (not to mention 17,000
pounds of the government’s money) on the design and construction of a successor
called the analytical engine. The analytical engine had four components: the store
(memory), the mill (computation unit), the input section (punched-card reader),
and the output section (punched and printed output). The store consisted of 1000
words of 50 decimal digits, each used to hold variables and results. The mill could
accept operands from the store, then add, subtract, multiply, or divide them, and fi-
nally return the result to the store. Like the difference engine, it was entirely me-
chanical.

-> 분석 엔진은 4부분으로 구성됨, 메로리 , 연산 유닛, 펀치카드 리더, 펀치 카드 프린터 같은 것으로 구성
-> 수치 데이터를 가져오고 , 그리고 사칙 연산자 등, 결과를 리턴하여 저장.

The great advance of the analytical engine was that it was general purpose. It
read instructions from punched cards and carried them out. Some instructions
commanded the machine to fetch two numbers from the store, bring them to the
mill, be operated on (e.g., added), and have the result sent back to the store. Other
instructions could test a number and conditionally branch depending on whether it
was positive or negative. By punching a different program on the input cards, it
was possible to have the analytical engine perform different computations, some-
thing not true of the difference engine.
분석 엔진은 펀치된 카드의 명령어들을 읽고 , 전달했다.
몇몇 명령어는 두개의 숫자를 저장소에 저장소에 전달하는 것을 통제하고, 그것을 mill으로 가져가서 , 실행되고
,그리고 그 연산결과를 저장소에 저장함.

Since the analytical engine was programmable in a simple assembly language,
it needed software. To produce this software, Babbage hired a young woman
named Augusta Ada Lovelace, who was the daughter of famed British poet Lord
Byron. Ada Lovelace was thus the world’s first computer programmer. The pro-
gramming language Ada is named in her honor.
Unfortunately, like many modern designers, Babbage never quite got the hard-
ware debugged. The problem was that he needed thousands upon thousands of
cogs and wheels and gears produced to a degree of precision that nineteenth-cen-
tury technology was unable to provide. Nevertheless, his ideas were far ahead of
his time, and even today most modern computers have a structure very similar to
the analytical engine, so it is certainly fair to say that Babbage was the
(grand)father of the modern digital computer.

-> 현대 컴퓨터의 구조를 거의 따라감

The next major development occurred in the late 1930s, when a German engin-
eering student named Konrad Zuse built a series of automatic calculating machines
using electromagnetic relays. He was unable to get government funding after
WWII began because government bureaucrats expected to win the war so quickly
that the new machine would not be ready until after it was over. Zuse was unaware
of Babbage’s work, and his machines were destroyed by the Allied bombing of
Berlin in 1944, so his work did not have any influence on subsequent machines.
Still, he was one of the pioneers of the field.

Slightly later, in the United States, two people also designed calculators, John
Atanasoff at Iowa State College and George Stibbitz at Bell Labs. Atanasoff’s ma-
chine was amazingly advanced for its time. It used binary arithmetic and had
capacitors for memory, which were periodically refreshed to keep the charge from
leaking out, a process he called ‘‘jogging the memory.’’ Modern dynamic memory
(DRAM) chips work the same way. Unfortunately the machine never really
became operational. In a way, Atanasoff was like Babbage: a visionary who was
ultimately defeated by the inadequate hardware technology of his time.
Stibbitz’ computer, although more primitive than Atanasoff’s, actually worked.
Stibbitz gave a public demonstration of it at a conference at Dartmouth College in
1940. Among those in the audience was John Mauchley, an unknown professor of
physics at the University of Pennsylvania. The computing world would hear more
about Prof. Mauchley later.

-> 이진법의 산술연산과 메모리에 대한 캐피시터를 사용한 기계를 만듬.

While Zuse, Stibbitz, and Atanasoff were designing automatic calculators, a
young man named Howard Aiken was grinding out tedious numerical calculations
by hand as part of his Ph.D. research at Harvard. After graduating, Aiken recog-
nized the importance of being able to do calculations by machine. He went to the
library, discovered Babbage’s work, and decided to build out of relays the gener-
al-purpose computer that Babbage had failed to build out of toothed wheels.
Aiken’s first machine, the Mark I, was completed at Harvard in 1944. It had
72 words of 23 decimal digits each and had an instruction time of 6 sec. Input and
output used punched paper tape. By the time Aiken had completed its successor,
the Mark II, relay computers were obsolete. The electronic era had begun.

-> 자동 계산기를 설계하고  구현함 -> 마크 1, 2의 탄생.


### 1.2.2 The First Generation—Vacuum Tubes (1945–1955) 첫번째 세대 - 진공관

The stimulus for the electronic computer was World War II. During the early
part of the war, German submarines were wreaking havoc on British ships. Com-
mands were sent from the German admirals in Berlin to the submarines by radio,
which the British could, and did, intercept. The problem was that these messages
were encoded using a device called the ENIGMA, whose forerunner was designed
by amateur inventor and former U.S. president, Thomas Jefferson.
Early in the war, British intelligence managed to acquire an ENIGMA machine
from Polish Intelligence, which had stolen it from the Germans. However, to break
a coded message, a huge amount of computation was needed, and it was needed
very soon after the message was intercepted to be of any use. To decode these
messages, the British government set up a top secret laboratory that built an elec-
tronic computer called the COLOSSUS. The famous British mathematician Alan
Turing helped design this machine. The COLOSSUS was operational in 1943, but
since the British government kept virtually every aspect of the project classified as
a military secret for 30 years, the COLOSSUS line was basically a dead end. It is
worth noting only because it was the world’s first electronic digital computer.
In addition to destroying Zuse’s machines and stimulating the construction of
the COLOSSUS, the war also affected computing in the United States. The army
needed range tables for aiming its heavy artillery. It produced these tables by hir-
ing hundreds of women to crank them out using hand calculators (women were
thought to be more accurate than men). Nevertheless, the process was time con-
suming and errors often crept in.

-> wreaking havoc 커다란 피해를 주다.
-> admirals 제독
-> COLOSSUS 는 암호 해독용 머신


John Mauchley, who knew of Atanasoff’s work as well as Stibbitz’, was aware
that the army was interested in mechanical calculators. Like many computer scien-
tists after him, he put together a grant proposal asking the army for funding to
build an electronic computer. The proposal was accepted in 1943, and Mauchley
and his graduate student, J. Presper Eckert, proceeded to build an electronic com-
puter, which they called the ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator And
Computer). It consisted of 18,000 vacuum tubes and 1500 relays. The ENIAC
weighed 30 tons and consumed 140 kilowatts of power. Architecturally, the ma-
chine had 20 registers, each capable of holding a 10-digit decimal number. (A dec-
imal register is very small memory that can hold one number up to some maximum
number of decimal digits, somewhat like the odometer that keeps track of how far
a car has traveled in its lifetime.) The ENIAC was programmed by setting up 6000
multiposition switches and connecting a multitude of sockets with a veritable for-
est of jumper cables.

The machine was not finished until 1946, too late to be of any use for its origi-
nal purpose. However, since the war was over, Mauchley and Eckert were allowed
to organize a summer school to describe their work to their scientific colleagues.
That summer school was the beginning of an explosion of interest in building large
digital computers.

After that historic summer school, many other researchers set out to build elec-
tronic computers. The first one operational was the EDSAC (1949), built at the
University of Cambridge by Maurice Wilkes. Others included the JOHNNIAC at
the Rand Corporation, the ILLIAC at the University of Illinois, the MANIAC at
Los Alamos Laboratory, and the WEIZAC at the Weizmann Institute in Israel.
Eckert and Mauchley soon began working on a successor, the EDVAC (Elec-
tronic Discrete Variable Automatic Computer). However, that project was
fatally wounded when they left the University of Pennsylvania to form a startup
company, the Eckert-Mauchley Computer Corporation, in Philadelphia (Silicon
Valley had not yet been invented). After a series of mergers, this company became
the modern Unisys Corporation.

As a legal aside, Eckert and Mauchley filed for a patent claiming they invented
the digital computer. In retrospect, this would not be a bad patent to own. After
years of litigation, the courts decided that the Eckert-Mauchley patent was invalid
and that John Atanasoff invented the digital computer, even though he never
patented it, effectively putting the invention in the public domain.

-> 디지털 컴퓨터의 발명
